README.md, before:

<!-- Update the title -->
# Terraform IBM Service-to-service authorization module

<!--
Update status and "latest release" badges:
  1. For the status options, see https://github.ibm.com/GoldenEye/documentation/blob/master/status.md
  2. Update the "latest release" badge to point to the correct module's repo. Replace "module-template" in two places.
-->
[![Graduated (Supported)](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Graduated%20(Supported)-brightgreen)](https://terraform-ibm-modules.github.io/documentation/#/badge-status)
[![latest release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/terraform-ibm-modules/terraform-ibm-s2s-auth?logo=GitHub&sort=semver)](https://github.com/terraform-ibm-modules/terraform-ibm-s2s-auth/releases/latest)
[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)
[![Renovate enabled](https://img.shields.io/badge/renovate-enabled-brightgreen.svg)](https://renovatebot.com/)
[![semantic-release](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20%20%F0%9F%93%A6%F0%9F%9A%80-semantic--release-e10079.svg)](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release)

This module generates authorization policies and context-based restriction (CBR) rules to enable access and restrictions between a source service and a target service.

<!-- Below content is automatically populated via pre-commit hook -->
<!-- BEGIN OVERVIEW HOOK -->
## Overview
* [terraform-ibm-s2s-auth](#terraform-ibm-s2s-auth)
* [Examples](./examples)
    * [Basic example](./examples/basic)
    * [Complete example](./examples/complete)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
<!-- END OVERVIEW HOOK -->


<!--
If this repo contains any reference architectures, uncomment the heading below and links to them.
(Usually in the `/reference-architectures` directory.)
See "Reference architecture" in Authoring Guidelines in the public documentation at
https://terraform-ibm-modules.github.io/documentation/#/implementation-guidelines?id=reference-architecture
-->
<!-- ## Reference architectures -->


<!-- This heading should always match the name of the root level module (aka the repo name) -->
## terraform-ibm-s2s-auth

### Usage

<!--
Add an example of the use of the module in the following code block.

Use real values instead of "var.<var_name>" or other placeholder values
unless real values don't help users know what to change.
-->

```hcl
module "service_auth_cbr_rules" {
  source                = "terraform-ibm-modules/s2s-auth/ibm"
  version               = "X.X.X" # Replace "X.X.X" with a release version to lock into a specific release
  service_map           = [
    {
        "description"= "This is a test auth policy",
        "enforcement_mode"= "report",
        "roles"= [
            "Reader"
        ],
        "source_resource_instance_id"= "<source_resource_instance_guid>",
        "source_service_name"= "cloud-object-storage",
        "target_resource_instance_id"= "<target_resource_instance_guid>",
        "target_service_name"= "kms"
    },
    {
        "description"= "This is a test auth policy",
        "enforcement_mode"= "report",
        "roles"= [
            "Reader"
        ],
        "source_rg"= "<source_rg>",
        "source_service_name"= "containers-kubernetes",
        "target_rg"= "<target_rg>",
        "target_service_name"= "kms"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Required IAM access policies

You need the following permissions to run this module.

* You must have access to the target service to create an authorization between services. You can grant only the level of access that you have as a user of the target service. For example, if you have viewer access on the target service, you can assign only the viewer role for the authorization.

<!-- Below content is automatically populated via pre-commit hook -->
<!-- BEGINNING OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->
### Requirements

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="requirement_terraform"></a> [terraform](#requirement\_terraform) | >= 1.9.0 |
| <a name="requirement_ibm"></a> [ibm](#requirement\_ibm) | >= 1.79.0, <2.0.0 |

### Modules

| Name | Source | Version |
|------|--------|---------|
| <a name="module_cbr_rules"></a> [cbr\_rules](#module\_cbr\_rules) | terraform-ibm-modules/cbr/ibm//modules/cbr-service-profile | 1.33.2 |

### Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [ibm_iam_authorization_policy.auth_policies](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/IBM-Cloud/ibm/latest/docs/resources/iam_authorization_policy) | resource |

### Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_cbr_target_service_details"></a> [cbr\_target\_service\_details](#input\_cbr\_target\_service\_details) | Details of the target service for which the rule has to be created. | <pre>list(object({<br/>    target_service_name = string<br/>    target_rg           = optional(string)<br/>    enforcement_mode    = string<br/>    tags                = optional(list(string))<br/>  }))</pre> | `[]` | no |
| <a name="input_enable_cbr"></a> [enable\_cbr](#input\_enable\_cbr) | Flag to enable CBR | `bool` | `true` | no |
| <a name="input_prefix"></a> [prefix](#input\_prefix) | Prefix for new CBR zones and rules. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_service_map"></a> [service\_map](#input\_service\_map) | Map of unique service pairs and their authorization config. | <pre>map(object({<br/>    source_service_name         = string<br/>    target_service_name         = string<br/>    roles                       = list(string)<br/>    description                 = optional(string, null)<br/>    source_service_account_id   = optional(string, null)<br/>    source_resource_instance_id = optional(string, null)<br/>    target_resource_instance_id = optional(string, null)<br/>    source_resource_group_id    = optional(string, null)<br/>    target_resource_group_id    = optional(string, null)<br/>  }))</pre> | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_zone_service_ref_list"></a> [zone\_service\_ref\_list](#input\_zone\_service\_ref\_list) | Service reference for the zone creation. | <pre>map(object({<br/>    service_ref_location = optional(list(string), [])<br/>  }))</pre> | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_zone_vpc_crn_list"></a> [zone\_vpc\_crn\_list](#input\_zone\_vpc\_crn\_list) | CRN of the VPC for the zones. | `list(string)` | `[]` | no |

### Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| <a name="output_auth_policies"></a> [auth\_policies](#output\_auth\_policies) | Authorizations created |
| <a name="output_cbr_rules"></a> [cbr\_rules](#output\_cbr\_rules) | CBR Rules created |
<!-- END OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->

<!-- Leave this section as is so that your module has a link to local development environment set up steps for contributors to follow -->
## Contributing

You can report issues and request features for this module in GitHub issues in the module repo. See [Report an issue or request a feature](https://github.com/terraform-ibm-modules/.github/blob/main/.github/SUPPORT.md).

To set up your local development environment, see [Local development setup](https://terraform-ibm-modules.github.io/documentation/#/local-dev-setup) in the project documentation.

Commit message:

docs: add major version migration notes

README.md, after:

<!-- Update the title -->
# Terraform IBM Service-to-service authorization module

<!--
Update status and "latest release" badges:
  1. For the status options, see https://github.ibm.com/GoldenEye/documentation/blob/master/status.md
  2. Update the "latest release" badge to point to the correct module's repo. Replace "module-template" in two places.
-->
[![Graduated (Supported)](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Graduated%20(Supported)-brightgreen)](https://terraform-ibm-modules.github.io/documentation/#/badge-status)
[![latest release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/terraform-ibm-modules/terraform-ibm-s2s-auth?logo=GitHub&sort=semver)](https://github.com/terraform-ibm-modules/terraform-ibm-s2s-auth/releases/latest)
[![pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-brightgreen?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit)
[![Renovate enabled](https://img.shields.io/badge/renovate-enabled-brightgreen.svg)](https://renovatebot.com/)
[![semantic-release](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20%20%F0%9F%93%A6%F0%9F%9A%80-semantic--release-e10079.svg)](https://github.com/semantic-release/semantic-release)

This module generates authorization policies and context-based restriction (CBR) rules to enable access and restrictions between a source service and a target service.

<!-- Below content is automatically populated via pre-commit hook -->
<!-- BEGIN OVERVIEW HOOK -->
## Overview
* [terraform-ibm-s2s-auth](#terraform-ibm-s2s-auth)
* [Examples](./examples)
    * [Basic example](./examples/basic)
    * [Complete example](./examples/complete)
* [Contributing](#contributing)
<!-- END OVERVIEW HOOK -->


<!--
If this repo contains any reference architectures, uncomment the heading below and links to them.
(Usually in the `/reference-architectures` directory.)
See "Reference architecture" in Authoring Guidelines in the public documentation at
https://terraform-ibm-modules.github.io/documentation/#/implementation-guidelines?id=reference-architecture
-->
<!-- ## Reference architectures -->


<!-- This heading should always match the name of the root level module (aka the repo name) -->
## terraform-ibm-s2s-auth

### Usage

<!--
Add an example of the use of the module in the following code block.

Use real values instead of "var.<var_name>" or other placeholder values
unless real values don't help users know what to change.
-->

```hcl
module "service_auth_cbr_rules" {
  source                = "terraform-ibm-modules/s2s-auth/ibm"
  version               = "X.X.X" # Replace "X.X.X" with a release version to lock into a specific release
  service_map           = {
    "test-policy-1" = {
        "description"= "This is a test auth policy",
        "enforcement_mode"= "report",
        "roles"= [
            "Reader"
        ],
        "source_resource_instance_id"= "<source_resource_instance_guid>",
        "source_service_name"= "cloud-object-storage",
        "target_resource_instance_id"= "<target_resource_instance_guid>",
        "target_service_name"= "kms"
    },
    "test-policy-2" = {
        "description"= "This is a test auth policy",
        "enforcement_mode"= "report",
        "roles"= [
            "Reader"
        ],
        "source_rg"= "<source_rg>",
        "source_service_name"= "containers-kubernetes",
        "target_rg"= "<target_rg>",
        "target_service_name"= "kms"
    }
  }
}
```

## v1 to v2 Migration Notes

Significant changes were made to the input format for `service_map` between v1.x.x and v2.x.x, the array of objects is now a map of objects, which also changes how Terraform tracks the state of the policies internally (from integer index to string). Due to this change, Terraform will want to destroy the old policies and CBR rules and create them again using the new key values, which can cause a disruption.

If you wish to avoid any policy destruction during the upgrade you can use the `terraform state mv` command to move the state of the old names to the new names you supply in the map input, as well as add the new integer assigned to the CBR module. This should allow you to upgrade with zero changes.

For example, using the [Basic example](./examples/basic) as our solution, you would perform the following commands between v1 and v2 that will result in no changes made for the upgrade:
```
terraform state mv 'module.service_auth_cbr_rules.ibm_iam_authorization_policy.auth_policies[0]' 'module.service_auth_cbr_rules.ibm_iam_authorization_policy.auth_policies["test-1"]'

terraform state mv 'module.service_auth_cbr_rules.module.cbr_rules' 'module.service_auth_cbr_rules.module.cbr_rules[0]'
```

### Required IAM access policies

You need the following permissions to run this module.

* You must have access to the target service to create an authorization between services. You can grant only the level of access that you have as a user of the target service. For example, if you have viewer access on the target service, you can assign only the viewer role for the authorization.

<!-- Below content is automatically populated via pre-commit hook -->
<!-- BEGINNING OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->
### Requirements

| Name | Version |
|------|---------|
| <a name="requirement_terraform"></a> [terraform](#requirement\_terraform) | >= 1.9.0 |
| <a name="requirement_ibm"></a> [ibm](#requirement\_ibm) | >= 1.79.0, <2.0.0 |

### Modules

| Name | Source | Version |
|------|--------|---------|
| <a name="module_cbr_rules"></a> [cbr\_rules](#module\_cbr\_rules) | terraform-ibm-modules/cbr/ibm//modules/cbr-service-profile | 1.33.2 |

### Resources

| Name | Type |
|------|------|
| [ibm_iam_authorization_policy.auth_policies](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/IBM-Cloud/ibm/latest/docs/resources/iam_authorization_policy) | resource |

### Inputs

| Name | Description | Type | Default | Required |
|------|-------------|------|---------|:--------:|
| <a name="input_cbr_target_service_details"></a> [cbr\_target\_service\_details](#input\_cbr\_target\_service\_details) | Details of the target service for which the rule has to be created. | <pre>list(object({<br/>    target_service_name = string<br/>    target_rg           = optional(string)<br/>    enforcement_mode    = string<br/>    tags                = optional(list(string))<br/>  }))</pre> | `[]` | no |
| <a name="input_enable_cbr"></a> [enable\_cbr](#input\_enable\_cbr) | Flag to enable CBR | `bool` | `true` | no |
| <a name="input_prefix"></a> [prefix](#input\_prefix) | Prefix for new CBR zones and rules. | `string` | `null` | no |
| <a name="input_service_map"></a> [service\_map](#input\_service\_map) | Map of unique service pairs and their authorization config. | <pre>map(object({<br/>    source_service_name         = string<br/>    target_service_name         = string<br/>    roles                       = list(string)<br/>    description                 = optional(string, null)<br/>    source_service_account_id   = optional(string, null)<br/>    source_resource_instance_id = optional(string, null)<br/>    target_resource_instance_id = optional(string, null)<br/>    source_resource_group_id    = optional(string, null)<br/>    target_resource_group_id    = optional(string, null)<br/>  }))</pre> | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_zone_service_ref_list"></a> [zone\_service\_ref\_list](#input\_zone\_service\_ref\_list) | Service reference for the zone creation. | <pre>map(object({<br/>    service_ref_location = optional(list(string), [])<br/>  }))</pre> | `{}` | no |
| <a name="input_zone_vpc_crn_list"></a> [zone\_vpc\_crn\_list](#input\_zone\_vpc\_crn\_list) | CRN of the VPC for the zones. | `list(string)` | `[]` | no |

### Outputs

| Name | Description |
|------|-------------|
| <a name="output_auth_policies"></a> [auth\_policies](#output\_auth\_policies) | Authorizations created |
| <a name="output_cbr_rules"></a> [cbr\_rules](#output\_cbr\_rules) | CBR Rules created |
<!-- END OF PRE-COMMIT-TERRAFORM DOCS HOOK -->

<!-- Leave this section as is so that your module has a link to local development environment set up steps for contributors to follow -->
## Contributing

You can report issues and request features for this module in GitHub issues in the module repo. See [Report an issue or request a feature](https://github.com/terraform-ibm-modules/.github/blob/main/.github/SUPPORT.md).

To set up your local development environment, see [Local development setup](https://terraform-ibm-modules.github.io/documentation/#/local-dev-setup) in the project documentation.
